---
#layout: post
title:  'Mallorca 2018'
date:   2018-04-14
instagram_id:
tags: []
#post_image: assets/2018-03/2018-03-04-strade-bianche-gran-fondo-2018.jpg
#post_image_large: assets/2018-03/2018-03-04-strade-bianche-gran-fondo-2018_large.jpg
#post_image_small: assets/2018-03/2018-03-04-strade-bianche-gran-fondo-2018_thumbnail.jpg
---

Progress! I am currently sitting in Palma airport, waiting to board our return flight to Paris after our second—of what I hope will be annual—Mallorca spring vacation.

Last year we opted for Mallorca because it had been an even greyer than usual Paris winter, and I was dying for sun. Also, I had been on the couch for 5 months (3 with a tibia stress fracture, and then 2 with several rounds of flu that eventually became bronchitis), and was supposed to go on a bike tour in May so needed a self-imposed biking boot camp.

We came back this year because Mallorca was far more fabulous than we'd expected. And I'm signed up for Etape du Tour this year, which means I need mountain experience, PDQ. While the Etape climbs will be considerably steeper, the steady grades and smooth roads of the famous Mallorcan climbs make for a good intro.


Day 1 - Test ride to Cala St Vincenc via the camis

While the classic first ride up here seems to ride the highway-side bike path along the bay to Porta Pollensa then up 3k to the first lookout on Cap Formentor. Since I was still spooked from a flare up in my low back earlier in the week, I opted for something more cautious. Also, between the bike rental shop being closed between 11h30 & 16h, and then spending the time to adjust the fit, we didn't start peddaling until after 17h, and I wasn't sure how long we'd have light.

Immediately behind our resort, Porta Blue Club Pollentia, is a bird refuge and marshland, and beyond that it is a patchwork of small farms that seem to either raising sheep, or growing olives or oranges. These little farms are linked by a network of narrow winding roads called 'cami', and for the most part are bordered by low dry-stone walls. And of course, the back drop is the Tramuntuna mountains just to the west, outlined by the lowering sun. In mid-April, we passed clouds of purple wisteria growing over the fences.

After 16k of speedy pedalling around the Camis, we connected with the fresh asphalt of the main road to Cala St Vincenc. The farms gave way to green valleys and low, bush-covered mountains. The road was empty and gently wound its way slightly uphill for 4k before sinking back down to the bay. We took a more direct route home, taking the Ma2201 (which is also a picturesque cami) which was the shortest route between our resort and Pollensa.

Day 2 - Cap Formentor > Pollensa - Lluc climb > Sa Batalla to Campanyet descent

It was overcast, chilly and windy when we set out on Sunday morning. The upside is we have the road to Cap Formentor to ourselves. Also, we later learned that weekends are best for the Formentor route because there's no buses on the route: they are too busy ferrying visitors between airport and hotels during the weekend.


  


## My favourite routes

Puig Major from Soller

The pretty road, especially late afternoon

Cap es Pinar

Alaro to Col d'Orient

The camis behind Porta Blue resort

## Tips for cyclists

Stay at Porta Blue

Get the laminated bike map to find ways to avoid the main roads

Formentor on the weekend, early - few riders and no tour buses

Soller - avoid the main placa and go to friendly tapas joint around the corner.

Sa Colabra - when we were there (mid April) tour buses only made the trip down & back between 13h & 15h, so best to avoid those times.

Descent from Lluc to Pollensa - do at end of day (17h), will have road to yourself and see valley lit up by late afternoon sun.



















[Veloviewer]: https://veloviewer.com
